(upbeat music)
Alright folks, we're gonna build
another Ajax example here we're using the icon
has dad joke API to build this or when you click it
now just fetch a random dad joke from the API
and display it we switch out a random amount
of texts in this button here.
So this is a pretty fun one because it's a simple API,
you can get random jokes, you can get a specific joke
and you can also search the jokes
we're gonna be doing the random joke one
but I encourage you to check out the rest
of the API endpoints as well.
you see lift got all the different endpoints right here.
And the other thing about it is that it requires
some custom headers, which is a good thing to learn.
And then finally this, we're gonna build
this cool little thing for the button
so that it doesn't duplicate the same button text twice
in a row 'cause sometimes random is not random enough
you have to tell it give me a random that is not this thing.
So first thing we're gonna do
is we'll open up our index HTML
I'm in 74 Dad jokes will open that up in the browser here.
And you'll see where some basic HTML here
we've got a button that we can click
and we've got a div where we can display our joke.
So let's go ahead and select that button first of all
so get joke button const
joke button is equal to document.querySelector.
Get the get joke and then we'll duplicate that
and make a joke holder and for that
it will be a joke the p inside of the joke div.
So say .joke p okay
so first thing I wanna do is let's build a function
that will just go off and get a joke.
So we're gonna go to the icon has Dad joke.
And we'll go to the bottom here and click on API.
And we'll just kind of read through how it works here.
So it has an API used for fetching random joke
blah, blah, blah authentication
no authentication is required enjoy
great, okay, good API response it.
All API endpoints follow the respective browser URLs.
But we have to adjust the response formatting
to be more suited for an API based on
the provided HTTP except header.
So what that means is that we can get a joke back as HTML,
or as JSON or as plain text.
Now that's interesting because the endpoint
is going to be the same for everybody.
But depending on what we pass,
it will return different values to us.
So let's start with that down here
and we'll make it a sync function called fetch joke.
Set cost responses equal to await fetch
and we are going to fetch the URL
is ICanHaveDadJoke.com
That is the API endpoint in this case
which is kind of interesting
'cause that is also the website
so the server will be able to
or we will tell the server what kind of response we want.
So we have this response we await fetch
and then let's just console log the response.
When we load the page, let's just run fetch joke
just so we can kick this thing off, open up our div tools
and rez is not defined, Oh,
it's 'cause they call it response.
So here we go, here is the response
now we need to be able to turn that
into something that is readable
so we'll say const joke is equal to response.
And normally we say something like dot JSON
Let's try that and see what we get.
Here we go syntax error unexpected token angle bracket.
In at JSON on a position zero,
this is something you hit all the time.
And what this error means
is that you have been returned some HTML likely
'cause it's returned an open angle bracket
and while it's trying to parse that JSON
it's going, whoa, that's not JSON that's it is HTML.
And the way that we can check that is if we go
to the network here and we find the actual
I can has dad joke request and you click through to it
the response you'll see the response is just an HTML
document that came back
so you see how you can use a fetch request to fetch data
from a totally separate website.
Not all websites will like to do this
but because they have a course policy setup
are able to do it.
So it tells us that we need to pass an accept header
that's either text HTML which is what we saw
or JSON or plain text so we need to pass along a header.
What's a header?
Well, a header is some additional information
that comes along with a request.
It's sort of like we're passing query parameters
but headers are their own spot
to pass along information along with it.
So you can see if we click on this request right here
the URL, the method, the status code,
the remote address, and the refer policy,
those are all pieces of information
that the browser will send along
and then when it comes back,
you also get some headers in terms of like,
what data comes back
there's some stuff with like CloudFlare in here
there's usually Google Analytics cookies in there
things like that so what we need to do
is pass along additional information.
And the way that that works with fetch
is that you pass a second object to fetch
and this can take a whole bunch of different arguments
in our case, we just wanna pass a header object.
So it's an object with a headers object inside of it
now it's a two levels deep and then it tells us
that we need the Accept header, okay?
So it's called accept capital A
it's important that we do capital
and then it's expecting one of the
so if I then turn this to application JSON,
then when we refresh, you'll see we've got a promise.
Oh, did we forget, yeah we forget to await response at JSON.
You see that comes back is some data.
Same thing is if I change that to text plane,
let's just gonna overwrite the first one,
okay to have double there.
And we get the same error unexpected token W
at position zero so go to my Network tab
look at the response and the reason is unexpected W
because it returned to us text.
What do you call a droid that takes a long way around RTD?
Oh my gosh RTD okay, so that just shows you
that you can fetch HTML, plain text or JSON.
And why is that, it's that's not just 'cause I changed this.
That's because we are sending this request to the server
and the server offers up those three kinds
not every API will offer that up.
So in our case, we wanna stick with JSON
and it looks like we have the joke there.
And then we let's just simply return
maybe let's call that data.
And then we return the whole data.
The reason why I'm gonna call that data
is 'cause I don't wanna say joke.joke
to get the actual joke property here.
Similarly, you could also just return JSON.response
because this is already on async method,
we will be awaiting the fetch joke either way,
so I prefer to do it like this
just so that if I ever need to like pop pop
a quick console log in there then I'm able to do that.
Alright, next thing I wanna do is,
let's wire up this button so that when someone clicks it,
we will go and fetch a joke.
So make a function called handle click
and we'll of get rid of this fetch joke on run
and then we'll say const joke is equal to await fetch joke.
And now we need to put in async
on this function so we can use that
and the reason why I'm destructuring here
is because we're returning data,
which will have an ID, a joke and a status.
And we only want the joke property there.
You might want some of this other information,
which is why I'm not throwing it out.
But in our case, we just want the joke
so we're destructuring the joke into a variable called joke.
And then let's just console log joke
and then we'll take our joke button
will add an event listener, listen for click,
and when that happens, we'll run the handle, click.
So now when we run it, we get a new joke every single time
that we cook it, good so what we can do here now
is we take our joke holder and we'll set the text content
of that to be joke okay, looking good.
Next up, what I wanna do is I wanna put the button text
to be one of these randomly
so let's make a new function above this
and it's a utility function
so we're just gonna call it random item from array.
And that will take in an array
and it will also take in something that it should not be.
And we'll implement that in just a second
then what we do is we'll say const item is equal to
will take the array that was passed in,
and we'll look up a random.
So if I have an array that is five items long,
I simply just need to run math.random times five.
And then if I use math.floor around that,
that will give me a random index between zero and four,
which is good 'cause array start at zero
so it's already working for us in that regard.
And instead of just hard coding five
will use the length of the button texts are right here
so we can get that so say math.floor
Take math.random times the array.length
The reason why I'm using the past in array.length
and not button text.length
is because I want this function to be utility function
and I wanna use this for, I don't know anything
like I write these functions all the time
and if they're not hard connected to this array
you can use them with other arrays.
So simply by passing in the array as an argument
So we have our item here and let's just return the item.
And let's try run it.
So we have the array which is called button text.
And we have our function which is called random item
from array and then we'll just pass it our button text
and now whenever I run it, it will give me a random item.
From there we go, that finally happened.
So this is the next problem.
Sometimes it will randomly return the exact same thing
which may make it seem like nothing happened.
So that's where I pass in this knot.
And here we'll say is if the item is equal to the one
that it's not like, if the thing that we pass in
is the last version, then we don't wanna return
that same one again then run it again.
So we simply return random item from array.
We passed the array and we passed not
and this is again, what do we call this
where a function calls itself, this is recursion
meaning that if the thing is the same time
as the one that we're not looking for then run it again.
And it's possible that this would run a couple times.
And if that's the case then it would just keep going
until it finds one that was not the same
as we're looking for so we'll console log
we use that one last time look again.
Now when I run it,
random item from array, button text
and let's just run it like that
and we don't wanna find 'please stop'
So now if I run that a couple times.
There we go, it looks like in this case,
it was please stop and then it ran it again for us.
So what we can do down here is
will say jokeButton.textContent is equal to
random item from array
and we'll pass it in our button text array
and then we'll also just pass it the jokeButton.textContent
so like, whatever the button currently says
don't return that one to me
because that's already the current one.
Now if we refresh this, it's working really, really well.
And if I just keep clicking it, eventually
we'll get a console log of we have we already used that one.
There we go we use that one last time look again
and it will just run over and over again.
So if this was like really short like three items
you would get it much more often.
And we can even log which one was used so not
we can log which one was used over again
and now it's three items and I bet it will happen.
We already used Ugh, so it ran it again.
Ah, look at that it ran twice
because they got OMG dad three times in a row.
So it ran twice for us obviously I'll bring that back
to what we have but that's just a handy little thing
that we can do and good example of recursion.
So this is working,
something that I would like to maybe do
is to show like a loading state.
And what we could do with that
is to make like a C S S loader.
Let's go ahead and do that.
We'll go into our joke here.
And what do div for the class of loader.
Let's just google C S S loader.
Pure C S S loader this one looks good.
So fun, I like this one so click on that.
And it looks like we need to use this markup
okay, so I don't need that loader I'll put that there.
And it looks like we need this C S S
paste it in and then let's take a look at it.
It probably hides it by default article back
and see how to use it.
License there we go, click the letter you want done
copy C S S, copy HTML done.
That's not working, hey listen spectors
this happens all time, you get some other weirdos code
Let's open it up, Oh.
So there's the ripple, Oh, you know why it's probably white.
All right we'll just save our yellow.
Oh my gosh it works of course
so it was working is just that it was white over top of it.
So what we can do is we can grab the loader as well,
what is it got?
It's got a class of LDS ripple.
I'm also gonna get a class of loader.
We can go up here and just say const loader
is equal to loader
and then when we fetch something, we will turn loader on.
So by default, the loader should be displayed none.
Let's turn that on.
So top loader display none and then actually no do this.
We'll make a class of hidden and will say display none.
And then we'll go to our loader and add a class of hidden.
Okay, and then when we wanna turn the loader on,
we just say loader.classList.add or .remove hidden
Let's see how we're doing there, okay.
And then when the data comes back,
we don't want to turn the loader off.
So, add okay, then we also wanna hide maybe the joke.
Maybe hide the button, well, well, that's happening.
So we'll say a jokeButton.classList.add hidden
and they'll do the opposite and remove it here.
There we go, absolutely jarring.
I wonder if we could put that thing inside of our button.
Let's try it, let's go to our button.
And we'll have to put a span in here
with the class of joke text just get joke.
And then we'll put our loader in there as well.
Let's take the hit it off so we can see if it's there.
Okay, let's make it white again.
Okay, let's change this size.
So I'll make a size variable, make it 20 px
and then we'll swap out these with size.
And these are all calculated, so it was 80 pixels.
These don't seem to be calculated at all.
Let's just say calc var size divided by two.
And let's put this size variable up
just on the HTML element.
It's work in and then this ones
We're is 80 pixels now they're 72
So at 80 divided or other way around 90%.
So calc var size times 0.9
(Instructor laughing)
It looks okay maybe these weren't exactly the right amount.
It looks cool enough to me.
So then we will put that back to hidden.
And we got to modify our buttons now,
so we don't want to hide the button or anymore.
We'll get rid of that.
Okay, it worked the first time.
And then it doesn't work after that.
And that's because we're overriding that span
with the loader when we come into it.
So what we need to do is say jokeButton
and then we'll say jokeButton span is equal to
joke button.querySelector
What do we put a class on that, jokeText
and then when we update the text with the joke
that's here and here it'll be jokeButtonSpan.
Uh, Uh!
Looking good, obviously that I don't know.
We'll see as scaling it down didn't work too well,
but I'm sure you could figure that out.
So that's I think that's enough for this one.
Pretty fun little exercise, we'll see in the next one